# 2.1

## 2.1.2 What is the maximum number of exchanges involving any particular item during selection sort? What is the average number of exchanges involving an item?

Since evry loop get the smallest value after the index n, so we just put a huge number before an ordered list, so it has to change n-1 times for a n-length list.

e.g.

> 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

## 2.1.5 for each of the two conditions in the inner for loop in insertion sort, descirbe an array of _N_ items where that condition is always false when the loop terminates.

this will work:

> 1 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2

## 2.1.6  Which method runs fastest for an array with all keys identical, selection sort or insertion sort?

Insertion sort is faster.

## 2.1.7  Which method runs fastest for an array in reverse order, selection sort or insertion sort?

Insertion sort is slower, because they compare the same amount of pairs, but insertion sort exchange more.

## 2.1.8 Suppose that we use insertion sort on a randomly ordered array where items have only one of three key values. Is the running time linear, quadratic, or something in between?

still time quadratic

## 2.1.10 Why not use selection sort for h-sorting in shellsort?

As descripted in this section, insertion sort works well for partially sorted array.

## 2.1.11 Implement a version of shellsort that keeps the increment sequence in an array, rather than computing it.

```python
n = len(items)
seq = [1, 4, 13, 40, ...]
step = 1
for i in xrange(1000):
    if seq[i] > n:
       step = i
       break
# continue shell sort       
```

## 2.1.13 Deck sort

1. just change an item in array to a 2-item tuple: (suit, rank)
2. compare 2 items by:

```python
def comp(i0, i1):
    return i0[1] > i1[1] if (i0[0] == i1[0]) else i0[0] > i1[0]
```


## 2.1.14

Take insertion sort for example:

use the ``move the top card to the bottom of the deck`` and ``operation on the top 2 cards`` as the for loops


## 2.1.15 Expensive exchange

A clerk at a shipping company is charged with the task of rearranging a number of large crates in order of the time they are to be shipped out. Thus, the cost of compares is very low (just look at the labels) relative to the cost of exchanges (move the crates). The warehouse is nearly full: there is extra space sufficient to hold any one of the crates, but not two. Which sorting method should the clerk use? 

The clerk should use selection-sort. Just look at the name, it will get the exactly crates needed, then only at most n exchanges for n goods

### 2.1.19 Shellsort worst case.

#### Q
Construct an array of 100 elements containing the numbers 1 through 100 for which shellsort, with the increments 1 4 13 40, use as large a number of compares as you can find.

#### A

Check the proposition before

>  The number of exchanges used by insertion sort is equal to the number of inversions in the array

now we take 1 ~ 12 as an example:

if it is 4-sorted, so this is the worst case:

> 10 7 4 1 11 8 5 2 12 9 6 3

so we can contruct the worst case with 100 numbers

### 2.1.20 Shellsort best case

Maybe this one:

```python
items = range(1, 101)
```

### 2.1.24 Insertion sort with sentinel

#### Q
Develop an implementation InsertionX.java of insertion sort that eliminates the j > 0 test in the inner loop by first putting the smallest item into position. Use SortCompare.java to evaluate the effectiveness of doing so. Note: it is often possible to avoid an index-out-of-bounds test in this way—the item that enables the test to be eliminated is known as a sentinel. 
#### A

change

```python
def insertion_sort(items):
    n = len(items)
    for i in range(1, n):
        for j in range(i, 0, -1):
            if items[j] < items[j-1]:
                items[j], items[j-1] = items[j-1], items[j]
            else:
                break
    return items
```

to

```python
def insertion_sort(items):
    n = len(items)
    for i in range(1, n):
        if items[0] > items[i]:
           items[0], items[i] = items[i], items[0]
        for j in range(i, 1, -1):
            if items[j] < items[j-1]:
                items[j], items[j-1] = items[j-1], items[j]
            else:
                break
    return items
```    
