### 2.2.4

__Does the abstract inplace merge produce proper output if and only if the two input subarrays are in sorted order? Prove your answer, or provide a counterexample.__

Yes. Here is a counterexample:

the 1st subarray

> 1 2 4 3

the 2nd subarray

> 6 7 8 9

and the result

> 1 2 4 3 6 7 8 9

### 2.2.7

__Show than the number of compares used by mergesort is monotonically increaseing (C(N+1) > C(N) for all N > 0)__

if N is odd, then the last pair of N+1 list has 2 items, instead of 1; if N is even, then N+1 list has more pairs than N-length list.

### 2.2.8

__Suppose that top-down mergesort is modified to skip the call on merge() whenever a[mid] <= a[mid+1]. Prove that the number of compares used for an array in sorted order is linear.__

If we check a[mid] <= a[mid+1], then return the merge operation for the merge() method, then only the mid vs mid+1 compare are invoked; and check the merge-sort tree, every 2 items nearby will all be compared, so number of compares is linear.

### 2.2.10 Faster merge

__Implement a version of merge() that copies the second half of a[] to aux[] in decreasing order and then does the merge back to a[]. This change allows you to remove the code to test that each of the halves has been exhausted from the inner loop. Note: the resulting sort is not stable.__

See 2.2.10.py

### 2.2.11 Improvements

__Write a program MergeX.java that implements the three improvements to mergesort that are described in the text: add a cutoff from small subarrays, test whether the array is already in order, and avoid the copy by switching arguments in the recursive code.__

See 2.2.11.py

### 2.2.12 Sublinear extra space

__Develop a merge implementation that reduces the extra space requirement to max(M, N/M), based on the following idea: Divide the array into N/M blocks of size M (for simplicity in this description, assume than N is a multiple of M). Then, (i) considering the blocks as items with their first key as the sort key, sort them using selection sort; and (ii) run through the array merging the first block with the second, then the second block with the third, and so forth.__

See 2.2.12.py

### 2.2.16 Natural mergesort.

__Write a version of bottom-up mergesort that takes advantage of order in the array by proceeding as follows each time it needs to find two arrays to merge: find a sorted subarray (by incrementing a pointer until finding an entry than is smaller than its predecessor in the array), then find the next, then merge them. Analyze the running time of this algorithm in terms of the array size and the number of maximal increasing sequences in the array.__

See 2.2.16.py

### 2.2.19 Inversions

__Develop and implement a linearithmic algorithm for computing the number of inversions in a given array (the number of exchanges that would be performed by insertion sort for that array -- see section 2.1). This quantity is related to the _Kendall tau distance_;__

If we consider two sorted sub list: lo .. mid, mid+1 ... hi in the merge operation(2.2.py):

```python
def merge(lo, mid, hi):
    i, j = lo, mid+1
    # copy lo ... hi to aux
    aux[lo:hi+1] = items[lo:hi+1]
    for k in range(lo, hi+1):
        if i > mid:
            items[k] = aux[j]
            j += 1
        elif j > hi:
            items[k] = aux[i]
            i += 1
        elif aux[j] < aux[i]: # watch out
            items[k] = aux[j]
            j += 1
            # this following line is new added
            yield mid - i + 1
        else:
            items[k] = aux[i]
            i += 1
```

pay special attention to the line with comment, it means
there are (mid - i + 1) pairs of reversions. So u can just sum the inversions together, or use ``yield`` in python.

### 2.2.21 Triplicates

__Given three lists of N names each, devise a linearithmic algorithm to determine if there is any name common to all three lists, and if so, return the first such name.__

See 2.2.21.py

