### 2.3.3

__What is the maximum number of times during the cexcution of Quick.sort() that the largest item can be exchanged, for an array of length N__

2. e.g.

> 2 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

### 2.3.5

__Write a program Sort2distinct.java that sorts an array that is known to contain just two distinct key values.__

DO NOT SORT. Just count the two keys, then fill the array.

### 2.3.8

__About how many compares will Quick.sort() make when sorting an array of N items that are all equal?__

Nlg^N


### 2.3.15 Nuts and bolts.

__(G. J. E. Rawlins). You have a mixed pile of N nuts and N bolts and need to quickly find the corresponding pairs of nuts and bolts. Each nut matches exactly one bolt, and each bolt matches exactly one nut. By fitting a nut and bolt together, you can see which is bigger. But it is not possible to directly compare two nuts or two bolts. Given an efficient method for solving the problem.__

Just change the q-sort a littel. use the 1st item in nuts as the pivort, part the bolts list; then use the corresponding bolt item part the nuts list.

### 2.3.16 Best case

__Write a program QuickBest.java that produces a best-case array (with no duplicates) for Quick.sort(): an array of N distinct keys with the property that every partition will produce subarrays that differ in size by at most 1 (the same subarray sizes that would happen for an array of N equal keys). For the purposes of this exercise, ignore the initial shuffle.__

for an un-sorted list, the best case is:

> pivort lower-ones bigger-ones

so to generate a best-case-list with length N, put the N/2 to the index 0, and generate the lower/bigger ones cerursively. See 2.3.16.py

### 2.3.17 Sentinels

This works in the inner sort, use the mid resurt as the right sentinels.

### 2.3.20 Nonrecursive quicksort

see 2.3.20.py

### 2.3.22 Fast 3-way partitioning.

see 2.3.22.py