# Container With Most Water

## question
Given n non-negative integers _a1, a2, ..., an_, where each represents a point at coordinate _(i, ai). n_ vertical lines are drawn such that the two endpoints of line _i_ is at _(i, ai)_ and _(i, 0)_.

Find two lines, which together with x-axis forms a container, such that the container contains the most water.

## Solution


The problem looks like this

```
^
|                                    *
|
|
|    *
|    +-------------------------------+
|  * |                               | *
|    |                               |
|    |                               |
|    |                               |
|    |                               |
+----+-------------------------------+----------------------->
```

The rectangle in the middle is the answer we want. We can describe the puzzle like this:

__Give N points (x1, Y1), ... (Xn, Yn), find the maximum Min(Yi, Yj) * abs(Xi - Xj)__

We can not just loop all pairs, it will make the solution as suck as the APP made by my company.


Is their any way we can find iterate the list and find the answer? To do that, we can just:

* make two pionters that point to the head and tail of the list
* move head and/or tail pointer until they met, __this step we want the area is increasing so we won't miss the maximum area__

The 2nd step is impossible, __We can't find a way that makes the area always increase__. We don't know __what's correct__.

What to do now? Since we can't do every correct move, we just __obviate the wrong move__. What is wrong? __The move that makes the area smaller and smaller__.

```
^
|       *B
|                                   *C
|
|    *A
|    ^
|    |                                 *D
|    +                                 ^
|                                      |
|                                      +
|
+------------------------------------------------------------>
```

Now we have 4 points, and head --> A, tail --> D. Now A is heigher than D.


__if we move the heigher pointer, the area will never change bigger__.

Because if you do that, the length change smaller, but the height has no opportunity to get bigger. So move the heighter pointer is always wrong. So we got the new steps:


* make two pointers: head, tail and a variable result
* if the current area is bigger than result, assign it to the result
* if the head is heighter, move the head forward; Move the tail backward otherwise
* when head, tail met, terminate the program